docs/BUILD_FIXES.md, before:

# Docker Build Fixes - Technical Summary

## Issues Fixed

### 1. GPG Signature Errors (Debian Repositories)
**Error**: `At least one invalid signature was encountered`

**Solution**: Added `Acquire::Check-Valid-Until=false` flag to apt-get commands:
```dockerfile
RUN apt-get update -o Acquire::Check-Valid-Until=false || \
    (apt-get clean && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* && \
     apt-get update -o Acquire::Check-Valid-Until=false)
```

### 2. Python PEP 668 Error
**Error**: `externally-managed-environment`

**Solution**: Added `--break-system-packages` flag to pip3 install:
```dockerfile
RUN pip3 install --no-cache-dir --break-system-packages \
    --trusted-host pypi.org \
    --trusted-host pypi.python.org \
    --trusted-host files.pythonhosted.org \
    slither-analyzer==0.10.0
```

### 3. SSL Certificate Chain Issues
**Error**: `self signed certificate in certificate chain` (affecting cargo, pip, and npm)

**Solutions**:
- **pip**: Added `--trusted-host` flags for pypi.org, pypi.python.org, and files.pythonhosted.org
- **npm**: Set `strict-ssl false` configuration
- **cargo**: Could not be resolved, Aderyn removed from build

### 4. Aderyn Build Failure
**Error**: Cargo unable to download from crates.io due to SSL certificate issues

**Solution**: Removed Aderyn from Docker build. Users can install it separately if needed.

### 5. Dependency Conflicts
**Error**: Incompatible versions of eth-* packages between Slither and Mythril

**Solution**: 
- Installed Slither and Mythril separately
- Acknowledged that runtime warnings are acceptable
- Removed version verification checks

### 6. npm Package Installation
**Error**: Missing package-lock.json and TypeScript not found

**Solution**: 
- Used `npm install --ignore-scripts` to skip prepare script during dependency install
- Built TypeScript after source code is copied

### 7. User Creation Conflict
**Error**: `UID 1000 is not unique`

**Solution**: Check if UID 1000 exists before creating user:
```dockerfile
RUN id -u 1000 >/dev/null 2>&1 || useradd -m -u 1000 mcp
```

## Build Time
- Approximately 5-10 minutes depending on network speed
- Separate pip installs for Slither and Mythril speed up dependency resolution

## Image Size
- Final image: ~1.36GB
- Includes: Node.js 20, Python 3.11, Slither, Mythril, build tools

## Testing Commands
```bash
# Build
docker-compose build

# Verify
make verify
make test

# Run
docker-compose run --rm farofino-mcp
```

## Notes for Future Builds
- These fixes are necessary for CI/CD environments with proxy or certificate chain issues
- The `--trusted-host` and SSL bypasses are safe for Docker builds but should not be used in production environments
- Dependency conflicts between tools are expected and do not affect runtime functionality

Commit message:

Provision Aderyn via Cyfrinup; update Dockerfile and install instructions
- Replace rustup/cargo-based Aderyn install with Cyfrinup provisioning in the Dockerfile
- Add CYFRIN_DIR, include /opt/cyfrin in PATH, and ensure chown covers /opt/cyfrin
- Reorder and tidy apt/pip steps (add curl, clean apt/cache paths)
- Update TOOL_INSTALL_INSTRUCTIONS and the aderyn missing-error message to recommend Cyfrinup

Provisions Aderyn via Cyfrinup for reliable installation

Ensures Aderyn is consistently available in the Docker image by provisioning it via Cyfrinup, which downloads a pre-built binary.

This change replaces the previous cargo-based installation, which was prone to failure due to network and SSL issues in certain environments.

Also updates install instructions to reflect the new Cyfrinup installation method.

docs/BUILD_FIXES.md, after:

# Docker Build Fixes - Technical Summary

## Issues Fixed

### 1. GPG Signature Errors (Debian Repositories)

**Error**: `At least one invalid signature was encountered`

**Solution**: Added `Acquire::Check-Valid-Until=false` flag to apt-get commands:

```dockerfile
RUN apt-get update -o Acquire::Check-Valid-Until=false || \
    (apt-get clean && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* && \
     apt-get update -o Acquire::Check-Valid-Until=false)
```

### 2. Python PEP 668 Error

**Error**: `externally-managed-environment`

**Solution**: Added `--break-system-packages` flag to pip3 install:

```dockerfile
RUN pip3 install --no-cache-dir --break-system-packages \
    --trusted-host pypi.org \
    --trusted-host pypi.python.org \
    --trusted-host files.pythonhosted.org \
    slither-analyzer==0.10.0
```

### 3. SSL Certificate Chain Issues

**Error**: `self signed certificate in certificate chain` (affecting curl, pip, and cargo)

**Solutions**:

- **pip**: Added `--trusted-host` flags for pypi.org, pypi.python.org, and files.pythonhosted.org
- **curl**: Downloads the Cyfrinup installer with `--tlsv1.2 -LsSf` to enforce modern TLS while remaining proxy-friendly
- **Cyfrinup**: Handles download of Aderyn binaries without relying on cargo/crates.io

### 4. Aderyn Provisioning

**Error**: Cargo-based installation failed in restricted environments (crates.io access, SSL interception)

**Solution**: Replaced cargo compilation with Cyfrinup, which installs the latest Aderyn release binary during the Docker build.

### 5. Dependency Conflicts

**Error**: Incompatible versions of eth-* packages between Slither and Mythril

**Solution**:

- Installed Slither and Mythril separately
- Acknowledged that runtime warnings are acceptable
- Removed version verification checks

### 6. npm Package Installation

**Error**: Missing package-lock.json and TypeScript not found

**Solution**:

- Used `npm install --ignore-scripts` to skip prepare script during dependency install
- Built TypeScript after source code is copied

### 7. User Creation Conflict

**Error**: `UID 1000 is not unique`

**Solution**: Check if UID 1000 exists before creating user:

```dockerfile
RUN id -u 1000 >/dev/null 2>&1 || useradd -m -u 1000 mcp
```

## Build Time

- Approximately 5-10 minutes depending on network speed
- Separate pip installs for Slither and Mythril speed up dependency resolution

## Image Size

- Final image: ~1.36GB
- Includes: Node.js 20, Python 3.11, Slither, Mythril, build tools

## Testing Commands

```bash
# Build
docker-compose build

# Verify
make verify
make test

# Run
docker-compose run --rm farofino-mcp
```

## Notes for Future Builds

- These fixes are necessary for CI/CD environments with proxy or certificate chain issues
- The `--trusted-host` and SSL bypasses are safe for Docker builds but should not be used in production environments
- Dependency conflicts between tools are expected and do not affect runtime functionality
