docs/DOCKER.md, before:

# Docker Setup for MCP Smart Contract Auditor

This document explains how to use the MCP Smart Contract Auditor with Docker, providing a pre-configured environment with audit tools (Slither and Mythril) installed.

## Overview

The Docker container provides:

- ✅ **Slither** (v0.10.0) - Python-based static analyzer
- ✅ **Mythril** (v0.24.8) - Symbolic execution analyzer
- ✅ **Aderyn** (latest via Cyfrinup) - Rust-based static analyzer
- ✅ **Python 3.12 runtime** - Base environment
- ✅ **MCP Server** - Pre-built and ready to use

**Note**: The build process includes workarounds for SSL certificate issues in certain environments. If you encounter SSL errors, the build should handle them automatically using --trusted-host flags and SSL verification bypasses.

## Quick Start

### Using Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. **Build the container:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose build
   ```

   **Build time**: Approximately 5-10 minutes depending on network speed.

   **If you encounter SSL certificate errors**, the Dockerfile includes automatic workarounds:
   - GPG signature verification bypass for apt-get
   - Trusted host configuration for pip
   - SSL verification disable for npm

   These are necessary for some CI/CD environments with proxy or certificate chain issues.

2. **Run the MCP server:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose run --rm farofino-mcp
   ```

3. **Audit a contract:**

   ```bash
   # Place your contracts in ./contracts directory
   mkdir -p contracts
   cp YourContract.sol contracts/
   
   # Run audit
   docker-compose run --rm farofino-mcp
   ```

### Using Makefile (Recommended for Development)

The repository includes a Makefile for easier management:

```bash
# Show all available commands
make help

# Build with automatic retry on network issues
make build-retry

# Build without cache
make build-no-cache

# Verify installation
make verify

# Run the server
make run
```

### Using Docker Directly

1. **Build the image:**

   ```bash
   docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
   ```

2. **Run the container:**

   ```bash
   docker run -i farofino-mcp:latest
   ```

3. **With contract volume mount:**

   ```bash
   docker run -i -v $(pwd)/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
   ```

## Configuration for Claude Desktop

### Option 1: Using Docker with stdin/stdout

Add to your Claude Desktop configuration:

**macOS/Linux:**

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": ["run", "-i", "--rm", "-v", "${PWD}/contracts:/contracts:ro", "farofino-mcp:latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

Replace `${PWD}` with the absolute path to your repository if Claude Desktop does not expand it automatically.

**Windows:**

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": ["run", "-i", "--rm", "-v", "%CD%/contracts:/contracts:ro", "farofino-mcp:latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Option 2: Using Docker Compose

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "docker-compose",
      "args": ["run", "--rm", "farofino-mcp"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/farofino-mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

Make sure `/path/to/farofino-mcp` is the actual host path where this repository lives so `docker-compose` can find `docker-compose.yml`.

## Volume Mounts

### Contracts Directory

Mount your contracts for analysis:

```bash
docker run -i -v /path/to/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

Swap `/path/to/contracts` for the real directory on your host that contains the Solidity files you want to audit.

Then in your MCP calls, use `/contracts/YourContract.sol` as the path.

### Configuration Directory (Optional)

```bash
docker run -i -v /path/to/config:/config:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

Replace `/path/to/config` with the full host path to your configuration files.

## Building the Image

### Standard Build

```bash
docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
```

### Build with specific versions

```bash
docker build \
  --build-arg SLITHER_VERSION=0.10.0 \
  --build-arg MYTHRIL_VERSION=0.24.8 \
  -t farofino-mcp:custom .
```

### Multi-platform Build

```bash
docker buildx build \
  --platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 \
  -t farofino-mcp:latest \
  --push .
```

## Verifying Installation

**Note**: Due to dependency conflicts between Slither and Mythril, version checks may produce warnings. The tools will work correctly at runtime despite these warnings.

### Check that the MCP server starts

```bash
docker run --rm farofino-mcp:latest sh -c "timeout 2 python3 -m farofino_mcp" 2>&1 | head -5
```

You should see: `MCP Smart Contract Auditor Server running on stdio`

### Test Slither availability

```bash
docker run --rm --entrypoint python3 farofino-mcp:latest -c "import slither; print('Slither: OK')"
```

### Test Mythril availability

```bash
docker run --rm --entrypoint sh farofino-mcp:latest -c "myth --version 2>&1 | head -1"
```

### Test Aderyn availability

```bash
docker run --rm --entrypoint sh farofino-mcp:latest -c "aderyn --version"
```

## Development Mode

For development with hot reload:

```bash
docker-compose --profile dev up farofino-mcp-dev
```

This mounts your source code and watches for changes.

## Container Size Optimization

The container is optimized for size:

- Single-stage build with Cyfrinup-managed tooling
- Slim base image (python:3.12-slim)
- Separate installation of Python packages to speed up builds
- Build artifacts cached efficiently
- Cleaned package manager caches

Expected image size: ~1.3-1.4GB (including Slither, Mythril, Aderyn, and Python runtime)

## Troubleshooting

### Container fails to start

```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs farofino-mcp

# Verify health check
docker inspect farofino-mcp --format='{{.State.Health.Status}}'
```

### Tools not found

```bash
# Rebuild without cache
docker-compose build --no-cache

# Verify tools in container
docker run --rm farofino-mcp:latest sh -c "which slither && which aderyn && which myth"
```

### Permission issues with mounted volumes

```bash
# Use proper permissions
chmod -R 755 contracts/

# Or run as current user
docker run -i --user $(id -u):$(id -g) -v $(pwd)/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

### Out of memory during build

```bash
# Increase Docker memory limit
# Docker Desktop -> Settings -> Resources -> Memory

# Or build with resource limits
docker build --memory=4g -t farofino-mcp:latest .
```

### Network timeout when pulling images

If you encounter timeout errors like `failed to resolve source metadata` or `dial tcp ... i/o timeout`:

```bash
# Solution 1: Increase Docker daemon timeout
# Add to Docker daemon.json (Linux: /etc/docker/daemon.json, Mac/Windows: Docker Desktop Settings -> Docker Engine)
{
  "max-concurrent-downloads": 3,
  "max-concurrent-uploads": 5,
  "registry-mirrors": []
}

# Solution 2: Use BuildKit with host network (better for CI/CD)
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build --network=host -t farofino-mcp:latest .

# Solution 3: Pull base images first (manual retry)
docker pull python:3.12-slim
docker-compose build

# Solution 4: Use docker-compose with increased timeout
COMPOSE_HTTP_TIMEOUT=300 docker-compose build

# Solution 5: If behind a corporate proxy
export HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080
export HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080
export NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
docker-compose build

# Solution 6: Use an alternative registry mirror (for China/restricted regions)
# Edit daemon.json to add registry mirrors:
{
  "registry-mirrors": ["https://mirror.gcr.io"]
}
# Then restart Docker daemon and retry build
```

**For CI/CD environments:**

```bash
# GitHub Actions - add retry logic
- name: Build Docker image
  run: |
    for i in {1..3}; do
      docker-compose build && break || sleep 15
    done

# Or use Docker Layer Caching action
- name: Set up Docker Buildx
  uses: docker/setup-buildx-action@v2
  
- name: Build and cache
  uses: docker/build-push-action@v4
  with:
    context: .
    file: ./Dockerfile
    cache-from: type=gha
    cache-to: type=gha,mode=max
```

## Security Considerations

1. **Read-only volumes**: Contracts are mounted as read-only (`:ro`) by default
2. **Non-root user**: Container runs as user `mcp` (UID 1000)
3. **No privileged access**: Container doesn't require elevated permissions
4. **Network isolation**: No exposed ports by default

## Performance Tips

1. **Use volume mounts** instead of copying files into the container
2. **Keep contracts organized** in a dedicated directory
3. **Use .dockerignore** to exclude unnecessary files
4. **Cache layers** by keeping package.json changes minimal

## CI/CD Integration

### GitHub Actions Example

```yaml
- name: Run MCP Audit
  run: |
    docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
    docker run -i -v ${{ github.workspace }}/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

### GitLab CI Example

```yaml
audit:
  image: docker:latest
  services:
    - docker:dind
  script:
    - docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
    - docker run -i -v $(pwd)/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

## Publishing to Registry

### Docker Hub

```bash
docker tag farofino-mcp:latest yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
docker push yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
```

### GitHub Container Registry

```bash
docker tag farofino-mcp:latest ghcr.io/yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
docker push ghcr.io/yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
```

## Additional Resources

- [Dockerfile Best Practices](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/)
- [Docker Compose Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [MCP Protocol Specification](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/specification)

## Support

For issues related to:

- **Docker setup**: Check this document and Docker logs
- **MCP server**: See main [README.md](README.md)
- **Audit tools**: Refer to tool-specific documentation (Slither, Aderyn, Mythril)

Commit message:

Removes Mythril integration
This commit removes Mythril, a symbolic execution tool, from the MCP Smart Contract Auditor.

The primary reason for this removal is to address dependency conflicts with other tools, particularly Slither. Mythril's reliance on older `eth-*` packages caused incompatibility issues with more recent web3 libraries, leading to build and runtime errors. Furthermore, the tool has been deprecated upstream.

By removing Mythril, the build process is simplified, dependency conflicts are resolved, and the image size is reduced. The focus shifts to Slither and Aderyn as the primary analysis tools, providing a more streamlined and reliable auditing experience.

docs/DOCKER.md, after:

# Docker Setup for MCP Smart Contract Auditor

This document explains how to use the MCP Smart Contract Auditor with Docker, providing a pre-configured environment with audit tools (Slither and Aderyn) installed.

## Overview

The Docker container provides:

- ✅ **Slither** Python-based static analyzer
- ✅ **Aderyn** (latest via Cyfrinup) - Rust-based static analyzer
- ✅ **Python 3.12 runtime** - Base environment
- ✅ **MCP Server** - Pre-built and ready to use

**Note**: The build process includes workarounds for SSL certificate issues in certain environments. If you encounter SSL errors, the build should handle them automatically using --trusted-host flags and SSL verification bypasses.

## Quick Start

### Using Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. **Build the container:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose build
   ```

   **Build time**: Approximately 5-10 minutes depending on network speed.

   **If you encounter SSL certificate errors**, the Dockerfile includes automatic workarounds:
   - GPG signature verification bypass for apt-get
   - Trusted host configuration for pip
   - SSL verification disable for npm

   These are necessary for some CI/CD environments with proxy or certificate chain issues.

2. **Run the MCP server:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose run --rm farofino-mcp
   ```

3. **Audit a contract:**

   ```bash
   # Place your contracts in ./contracts directory
   mkdir -p contracts
   cp YourContract.sol contracts/
   
   # Run audit
   docker-compose run --rm farofino-mcp
   ```

### Using Makefile (Recommended for Development)

The repository includes a Makefile for easier management:

```bash
# Show all available commands
make help

# Build with automatic retry on network issues
make build-retry

# Build without cache
make build-no-cache

# Verify installation
make verify

# Run the server
make run
```

### Using Docker Directly

1. **Build the image:**

   ```bash
   docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
   ```

2. **Run the container:**

   ```bash
   docker run -i farofino-mcp:latest
   ```

3. **With contract volume mount:**

   ```bash
   docker run -i -v $(pwd)/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
   ```

## Configuration for Claude Desktop

### Option 1: Using Docker with stdin/stdout

Add to your Claude Desktop configuration:

**macOS/Linux:**

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": ["run", "-i", "--rm", "-v", "${PWD}/contracts:/contracts:ro", "farofino-mcp:latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

Replace `${PWD}` with the absolute path to your repository if Claude Desktop does not expand it automatically.

**Windows:**

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": ["run", "-i", "--rm", "-v", "%CD%/contracts:/contracts:ro", "farofino-mcp:latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Option 2: Using Docker Compose

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "docker-compose",
      "args": ["run", "--rm", "farofino-mcp"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/farofino-mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

Make sure `/path/to/farofino-mcp` is the actual host path where this repository lives so `docker-compose` can find `docker-compose.yml`.

## Volume Mounts

### Contracts Directory

Mount your contracts for analysis:

```bash
docker run -i -v /path/to/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

Swap `/path/to/contracts` for the real directory on your host that contains the Solidity files you want to audit.

Then in your MCP calls, use `/contracts/YourContract.sol` as the path.

### Configuration Directory (Optional)

```bash
docker run -i -v /path/to/config:/config:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

Replace `/path/to/config` with the full host path to your configuration files.

## Building the Image

### Standard Build

```bash
docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
```

### Build with specific versions

```bash
docker build \
  --build-arg SLITHER_VERSION=0.10.0 \
  -t farofino-mcp:custom .
```

### Multi-platform Build

```bash
docker buildx build \
  --platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 \
  -t farofino-mcp:latest \
  --push .
```

## Verifying Installation

**Note**: The build includes workarounds for SSL issues and may emit benign warnings from third-party dependencies.

### Check that the MCP server starts

```bash
docker run --rm farofino-mcp:latest sh -c "timeout 2 python3 -m farofino_mcp" 2>&1 | head -5
```

You should see: `MCP Smart Contract Auditor Server running on stdio`

### Test Slither availability

```bash
docker run --rm --entrypoint python3 farofino-mcp:latest -c "import slither; print('Slither: OK')"
```

### Test Aderyn availability

```bash
docker run --rm --entrypoint sh farofino-mcp:latest -c "aderyn --version"
```

## Development Mode

For development with hot reload:

```bash
docker-compose --profile dev up farofino-mcp-dev
```

This mounts your source code and watches for changes.

## Container Size Optimization

The container is optimized for size:

- Single-stage build with Cyfrinup-managed tooling
- Slim base image (python:3.12-slim)
- Separate installation of Python packages to speed up builds
- Build artifacts cached efficiently
- Cleaned package manager caches

Expected image size: ~1.3-1.4GB (including Slither, Aderyn, and Python runtime)

## Troubleshooting

### Container fails to start

```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs farofino-mcp

# Verify health check
docker inspect farofino-mcp --format='{{.State.Health.Status}}'
```

### Tools not found

```bash
# Rebuild without cache
docker-compose build --no-cache

# Verify tools in container
docker run --rm farofino-mcp:latest sh -c "which slither && which aderyn"
```

### Permission issues with mounted volumes

```bash
# Use proper permissions
chmod -R 755 contracts/

# Or run as current user
docker run -i --user $(id -u):$(id -g) -v $(pwd)/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

### Out of memory during build

```bash
# Increase Docker memory limit
# Docker Desktop -> Settings -> Resources -> Memory

# Or build with resource limits
docker build --memory=4g -t farofino-mcp:latest .
```

### Network timeout when pulling images

If you encounter timeout errors like `failed to resolve source metadata` or `dial tcp ... i/o timeout`:

```bash
# Solution 1: Increase Docker daemon timeout
# Add to Docker daemon.json (Linux: /etc/docker/daemon.json, Mac/Windows: Docker Desktop Settings -> Docker Engine)
{
  "max-concurrent-downloads": 3,
  "max-concurrent-uploads": 5,
  "registry-mirrors": []
}

# Solution 2: Use BuildKit with host network (better for CI/CD)
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build --network=host -t farofino-mcp:latest .

# Solution 3: Pull base images first (manual retry)
docker pull python:3.12-slim
docker-compose build

# Solution 4: Use docker-compose with increased timeout
COMPOSE_HTTP_TIMEOUT=300 docker-compose build

# Solution 5: If behind a corporate proxy
export HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080
export HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080
export NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
docker-compose build

# Solution 6: Use an alternative registry mirror (for China/restricted regions)
# Edit daemon.json to add registry mirrors:
{
  "registry-mirrors": ["https://mirror.gcr.io"]
}
# Then restart Docker daemon and retry build
```

**For CI/CD environments:**

```bash
# GitHub Actions - add retry logic
- name: Build Docker image
  run: |
    for i in {1..3}; do
      docker-compose build && break || sleep 15
    done

# Or use Docker Layer Caching action
- name: Set up Docker Buildx
  uses: docker/setup-buildx-action@v2
  
- name: Build and cache
  uses: docker/build-push-action@v4
  with:
    context: .
    file: ./Dockerfile
    cache-from: type=gha
    cache-to: type=gha,mode=max
```

## Security Considerations

1. **Read-only volumes**: Contracts are mounted as read-only (`:ro`) by default
2. **Non-root user**: Container runs as user `mcp` (UID 1000)
3. **No privileged access**: Container doesn't require elevated permissions
4. **Network isolation**: No exposed ports by default

## Performance Tips

1. **Use volume mounts** instead of copying files into the container
2. **Keep contracts organized** in a dedicated directory
3. **Use .dockerignore** to exclude unnecessary files
4. **Cache layers** by keeping package.json changes minimal

## CI/CD Integration

### GitHub Actions Example

```yaml
- name: Run MCP Audit
  run: |
    docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
    docker run -i -v ${{ github.workspace }}/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

### GitLab CI Example

```yaml
audit:
  image: docker:latest
  services:
    - docker:dind
  script:
    - docker build -t farofino-mcp:latest .
    - docker run -i -v $(pwd)/contracts:/contracts:ro farofino-mcp:latest
```

## Publishing to Registry

### Docker Hub

```bash
docker tag farofino-mcp:latest yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
docker push yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
```

### GitHub Container Registry

```bash
docker tag farofino-mcp:latest ghcr.io/yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
docker push ghcr.io/yourusername/farofino-mcp:latest
```

## Additional Resources

- [Dockerfile Best Practices](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/)
- [Docker Compose Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [MCP Protocol Specification](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/specification)

## Support

For issues related to:

- **Docker setup**: Check this document and Docker logs
- **MCP server**: See main [README.md](README.md)
- **Audit tools**: Refer to tool-specific documentation (Slither, Aderyn)
