docs/IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Implementation Summary - Python Rewrite and CI/CD Pipeline

## Overview

This document summarizes the complete rewrite of the MCP Smart Contract Auditor from TypeScript/Node.js to Python, including the implementation of a CI/CD pipeline with semantic versioning.

## What Was Accomplished

### 1. Complete Python Rewrite ✅

**Files Created:**
- `farofino_mcp/__init__.py` - Package initialization with version
- `farofino_mcp/__main__.py` - Main server implementation (432 lines)
- `pyproject.toml` - Python project configuration
- `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies
- `setup.py` - Setup configuration for backwards compatibility

**Key Features Implemented:**
- ✅ Full MCP (Model Context Protocol) server implementation in Python
- ✅ All 6 audit tools preserved and working:
  - `slither_audit` - Static analysis with Slither
  - `aderyn_audit` - Rust-based analysis with Aderyn
  - `mythril_audit` - Symbolic execution with Mythril
  - `pattern_analysis` - Pattern-based security checks
  - `read_contract` - Read contract source code
  - `check_tools` - Check available audit tools
- ✅ Async/await architecture using Python's asyncio
- ✅ Proper error handling and validation
- ✅ Compatible with MCP SDK 1.0+

### 2. Docker Configuration ✅

**Updated Files:**
- `Dockerfile` - Completely rewritten for Python 3.12
- `docker-compose.yml` - Updated for Python application

**Changes:**
- Base image: `node:20-slim` → `python:3.12-slim`
- Entry point: `node dist/index.js` → `python3 -m farofino_mcp`
- Python audit tools (Slither, Mythril) pre-installed
- SSL certificate trust flags added to handle network issues
- Optimized layer caching for faster builds

### 3. CI/CD Pipeline ✅

**New File:**
- `.github/workflows/release.yml` - Complete CI/CD automation (269 lines)

**Pipeline Features:**

#### a) Semantic Versioning
- Automatic version calculation from commit messages
- Follows conventional commits:
  - `feat!:` or `BREAKING CHANGE:` → Major version bump
  - `feat:` → Minor version bump
  - Other commits → Patch version bump
- Generates version tag (e.g., `v0.2.0`)

#### b) Python Package Build
- Builds distributable packages (.tar.gz, .whl)
- Updates version in all files automatically
- Validates packages with twine
- Uploads packages as artifacts

#### c) Docker Image Publishing
- Builds Docker image with Buildx
- Publishes to GitHub Container Registry (ghcr.io)
- Multiple tags: `latest`, `v{version}`, `{version}`
- Layer caching for fast builds

#### d) GitHub Release Creation
- Automatically creates releases
- Includes changelog from commits
- Attaches Python packages
- Provides Docker pull commands
- Includes installation instructions

### 4. Documentation ✅

**Created/Updated Files:**

1. **PYTHON_MIGRATION.md** (202 lines)
   - Complete migration guide
   - Before/after comparisons
   - Installation methods
   - Configuration examples
   - Troubleshooting guide

2. **CI_CD_SETUP.md** (305 lines)
   - Comprehensive CI/CD documentation
   - Semantic versioning explanation
   - Workflow breakdown
   - Usage instructions
   - Best practices

3. **README.md** (Updated)
   - Python installation instructions
   - Updated usage examples
   - New project structure
   - Python-specific configuration

4. **CONTRIBUTING.md** (Updated)
   - Python development guidelines
   - New project structure
   - Python code style (PEP 8)
   - Updated contribution workflow

### 5. Configuration Updates ✅

**Updated Files:**
- `.gitignore` - Added Python artifacts (\_\_pycache\_\_, *.pyc, etc.)
- All documentation files updated to reflect Python

### 6. Testing and Validation ✅

**Tests Performed:**
- ✅ Python syntax validation
- ✅ Import and module structure
- ✅ Pattern analysis functionality
- ✅ Read contract functionality
- ✅ Check tools functionality
- ✅ Command existence checks
- ✅ File existence checks
- ✅ Async/await operations

## Technical Details

### Architecture Changes

**Before (TypeScript):**
```
Node.js Runtime
└── TypeScript (compiled to JavaScript)
    └── @modelcontextprotocol/sdk
        └── MCP Server
```

**After (Python):**
```
Python 3.8+ Runtime
└── Python (interpreted)
    └── mcp SDK
        └── MCP Server
```

### Dependencies

**Python Dependencies:**
- `mcp>=1.0.0` - MCP SDK for Python
- Optional: `slither-analyzer`, `mythril` (for audit tools)

**Why Python?**
1. Native integration with security tools (Slither, Mythril are Python-based)
2. Simpler dependency management
3. Better ecosystem alignment
4. Improved maintainability

### Code Metrics

| Metric | TypeScript Version | Python Version |
|--------|-------------------|----------------|
| Main file lines | 558 | 432 |
| Dependencies | 92 packages | 23 packages |
| Runtime size | ~500MB (Node.js) | ~400MB (Python) |
| Build time | ~10s (npm + tsc) | ~0s (no build) |

## CI/CD Workflow

### Trigger Points

1. **Automatic:** Push to `main` branch
2. **Manual:** GitHub Actions UI

### Workflow Steps

```
Commit to main
    ↓
Calculate Version
    ↓
┌──────────────────┬──────────────────┐
│                  │                  │
Build Python     Build Docker      
Package          Image             
│                  │                  │
└──────────────────┴──────────────────┘
    ↓
Create GitHub Release
    ↓
Publish Artifacts
```

### Release Artifacts

Each release includes:
1. **Git Tag:** `v{version}`
2. **Python Packages:** `.tar.gz` and `.whl`
3. **Docker Images:** Multiple tags on ghcr.io
4. **Release Notes:** With changelog

## Usage Examples

### Running Locally

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/italoag/farofino-mcp.git
cd farofino-mcp

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run server
python3 -m farofino_mcp
```

### With Docker

```bash
# Pull image
docker pull ghcr.io/italoag/farofino-mcp:latest

# Run
docker run -i --rm ghcr.io/italoag/farofino-mcp:latest
```

### Claude Desktop Configuration

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "scaudit": {
      "command": "python3",
      "args": ["-m", "farofino_mcp"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/farofino-mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

## Migration Impact

### Breaking Changes

1. **Runtime:** Node.js → Python 3.8+
2. **Installation:** npm → pip
3. **Entry point:** `npx farofino-mcp` → `python3 -m farofino_mcp`
4. **Configuration:** Claude Desktop config needs update

### Compatibility

- ✅ All MCP protocol features preserved
- ✅ All audit tools work the same way
- ✅ Same input/output format
- ✅ Backward compatible at API level

### For Users

**To migrate:**
1. Remove Node.js artifacts
2. Install Python dependencies
3. Update Claude Desktop configuration
4. Run `python3 -m farofino_mcp`

## Future Enhancements

Recommended next steps:

1. **Testing:** Add pytest-based test suite
2. **PyPI:** Publish package to PyPI for `pip install farofino-mcp`
3. **CI:** Add automated tests to workflow
4. **Linting:** Add black, flake8, mypy to CI
5. **Security:** Add Dependabot and security scanning
6. **Docs:** Add API documentation with Sphinx
7. **Examples:** Add more example contracts
8. **Tools:** Add more audit tool integrations

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Module not found:** Ensure you run `python3 -m farofino_mcp` from project root
2. **MCP SDK not found:** Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. **Docker build fails:** SSL certificate issues - already handled with trust flags
4. **Audit tools not found:** Install separately: `pip install slither-analyzer mythril`

## Conclusion

The project has been successfully rewritten from TypeScript to Python with:

- ✅ 100% feature parity
- ✅ Complete CI/CD automation
- ✅ Semantic versioning
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation
- ✅ Docker support
- ✅ GitHub Actions integration

The Python version is more maintainable, better integrated with security tools, and easier to extend.

## Credits

- Original TypeScript implementation by the farofino-mcp team
- Python rewrite completed as requested
- CI/CD pipeline designed for automatic releases

## Support

For issues or questions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/italoag/farofino-mcp/issues
- Documentation: See PYTHON_MIGRATION.md and CI_CD_SETUP.md
- Contributing: See CONTRIBUTING.md

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-10-17
**Version:** Python rewrite v1.0

Commit message:

Provision Aderyn via Cyfrinup; update Dockerfile and install instructions
- Replace rustup/cargo-based Aderyn install with Cyfrinup provisioning in the Dockerfile
- Add CYFRIN_DIR, include /opt/cyfrin in PATH, and ensure chown covers /opt/cyfrin
- Reorder and tidy apt/pip steps (add curl, clean apt/cache paths)
- Update TOOL_INSTALL_INSTRUCTIONS and the aderyn missing-error message to recommend Cyfrinup

Provisions Aderyn via Cyfrinup for reliable installation

Ensures Aderyn is consistently available in the Docker image by provisioning it via Cyfrinup, which downloads a pre-built binary.

This change replaces the previous cargo-based installation, which was prone to failure due to network and SSL issues in certain environments.

Also updates install instructions to reflect the new Cyfrinup installation method.

docs/IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Implementation Summary - Python Rewrite and CI/CD Pipeline

## Overview

This document summarizes the complete rewrite of the MCP Smart Contract Auditor from TypeScript/Node.js to Python, including the implementation of a CI/CD pipeline with semantic versioning.

## What Was Accomplished

### 1. Complete Python Rewrite ✅

**Files Created:**

- `farofino_mcp/__init__.py` - Package initialization with version
- `farofino_mcp/__main__.py` - Main server implementation (432 lines)
- `pyproject.toml` - Python project configuration
- `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies
- `setup.py` - Setup configuration for backwards compatibility

**Key Features Implemented:**

- ✅ Full MCP (Model Context Protocol) server implementation in Python
- ✅ All 6 audit tools preserved and working:
  - `slither_audit` - Static analysis with Slither
  - `aderyn_audit` - Rust-based analysis with Aderyn
  - `mythril_audit` - Symbolic execution with Mythril
  - `pattern_analysis` - Pattern-based security checks
  - `read_contract` - Read contract source code
  - `check_tools` - Check available audit tools
- ✅ Async/await architecture using Python's asyncio
- ✅ Proper error handling and validation
- ✅ Compatible with MCP SDK 1.0+

### 2. Docker Configuration ✅

**Updated Files:**

- `Dockerfile` - Completely rewritten for Python 3.12
- `docker-compose.yml` - Updated for Python application

**Changes:**

- Base image: `node:20-slim` → `python:3.12-slim`
- Entry point: `node dist/index.js` → `python3 -m farofino_mcp`
- Python audit tools (Slither, Mythril) pre-installed
- SSL certificate trust flags added to handle network issues
- Optimized layer caching for faster builds

### 3. CI/CD Pipeline ✅

**New File:**

- `.github/workflows/release.yml` - Complete CI/CD automation (269 lines)

**Pipeline Features:**

#### a) Semantic Versioning

- Automatic version calculation from commit messages
- Follows conventional commits:
  - `feat!:` or `BREAKING CHANGE:` → Major version bump
  - `feat:` → Minor version bump
  - Other commits → Patch version bump
- Generates version tag (e.g., `v0.2.0`)

#### b) Python Package Build

- Builds distributable packages (.tar.gz, .whl)
- Updates version in all files automatically
- Validates packages with twine
- Uploads packages as artifacts

#### c) Docker Image Publishing

- Builds Docker image with Buildx
- Publishes to GitHub Container Registry (ghcr.io)
- Multiple tags: `latest`, `v{version}`, `{version}`
- Layer caching for fast builds

#### d) GitHub Release Creation

- Automatically creates releases
- Includes changelog from commits
- Attaches Python packages
- Provides Docker pull commands
- Includes installation instructions

### 4. Documentation ✅

**Created/Updated Files:**

1. **PYTHON_MIGRATION.md** (202 lines)
   - Complete migration guide
   - Before/after comparisons
   - Installation methods
   - Configuration examples
   - Troubleshooting guide

2. **CI_CD_SETUP.md** (305 lines)
   - Comprehensive CI/CD documentation
   - Semantic versioning explanation
   - Workflow breakdown
   - Usage instructions
   - Best practices

3. **README.md** (Updated)
   - Python installation instructions
   - Updated usage examples
   - New project structure
   - Python-specific configuration

4. **CONTRIBUTING.md** (Updated)
   - Python development guidelines
   - New project structure
   - Python code style (PEP 8)
   - Updated contribution workflow

### 5. Configuration Updates ✅

**Updated Files:**

- `.gitignore` - Added Python artifacts (\_\_pycache\_\_, *.pyc, etc.)
- All documentation files updated to reflect Python

### 6. Testing and Validation ✅

**Tests Performed:**

- ✅ Python syntax validation
- ✅ Import and module structure
- ✅ Pattern analysis functionality
- ✅ Read contract functionality
- ✅ Check tools functionality
- ✅ Command existence checks
- ✅ File existence checks
- ✅ Async/await operations

## Technical Details

### Architecture Changes

**Before (TypeScript):**

```log
Node.js Runtime
└── TypeScript (compiled to JavaScript)
    └── @modelcontextprotocol/sdk
        └── MCP Server
```

**After (Python):**

```log
Python 3.8+ Runtime
└── Python (interpreted)
    └── mcp SDK
        └── MCP Server
```

### Dependencies

**Python Dependencies:**

- `mcp>=1.0.0` - MCP SDK for Python
- `slither-analyzer` and `mythril` installed in the Docker image for audit tooling
- Aderyn distributed via Cyfrinup (binary)

**Why Python?**

1. Native integration with security tools (Slither, Mythril are Python-based)
2. Simpler dependency management
3. Better ecosystem alignment
4. Improved maintainability

### Code Metrics

| Metric | TypeScript Version | Python Version |
|--------|-------------------|----------------|
| Main file lines | 558 | 432 |
| Dependencies | 92 packages | 23 packages |
| Runtime size | ~500MB (Node.js) | ~400MB (Python) |
| Build time | ~10s (npm + tsc) | ~0s (no build) |

## CI/CD Workflow

### Trigger Points

1. **Automatic:** Push to `main` branch
2. **Manual:** GitHub Actions UI

### Workflow Steps

```log
Commit to main
    ↓
Calculate Version
    ↓
┌──────────────────┬──────────────────┐
│                  │                  │
│    Build Python  │    Build Docker  │
│     Package      │       Image      │
│                  │                  │
└──────────────────┴──────────────────┘
    ↓
Create GitHub Release
    ↓
Publish Artifacts
```

### Release Artifacts

Each release includes:

1. **Git Tag:** `v{version}`
2. **Python Packages:** `.tar.gz` and `.whl`
3. **Docker Images:** Multiple tags on ghcr.io
4. **Release Notes:** With changelog

## Usage Examples

### Running Locally

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/italoag/farofino-mcp.git
cd farofino-mcp

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run server
python3 -m farofino_mcp
```

### With Docker

```bash
# Pull image
docker pull ghcr.io/italoag/farofino-mcp:latest

# Run
docker run -i --rm ghcr.io/italoag/farofino-mcp:latest
```

### Claude Desktop Configuration

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "farofino": {
      "command": "python3",
      "args": ["-m", "farofino_mcp"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/farofino-mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

Remember to replace `/path/to/farofino-mcp` with the absolute path to the repository on your machine.

## Migration Impact

### Breaking Changes

1. **Runtime:** Node.js → Python 3.8+
2. **Installation:** npm → pip
3. **Entry point:** `npx farofino-mcp` → `python3 -m farofino_mcp`
4. **Configuration:** Claude Desktop config needs update

### Compatibility

- ✅ All MCP protocol features preserved
- ✅ All audit tools work the same way
- ✅ Same input/output format
- ✅ Backward compatible at API level

### For Users

**To migrate:**

1. Remove Node.js artifacts
2. Install Python dependencies
3. Update Claude Desktop configuration
4. Run `python3 -m farofino_mcp`

## Future Enhancements

Recommended next steps:

1. **Testing:** Add pytest-based test suite
2. **PyPI:** Publish package to PyPI for `pip install farofino-mcp`
3. **CI:** Add automated tests to workflow
4. **Linting:** Add black, flake8, mypy to CI
5. **Security:** Add Dependabot and security scanning
6. **Docs:** Add API documentation with Sphinx
7. **Examples:** Add more example contracts
8. **Tools:** Add more audit tool integrations

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Module not found:** Ensure you run `python3 -m farofino_mcp` from project root
2. **MCP SDK not found:** Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. **Docker build fails:** SSL certificate issues - already handled with trust flags
4. **Audit tools not found:** Install separately: `pip install slither-analyzer mythril`

## Conclusion

The project has been successfully rewritten from TypeScript to Python with:

- ✅ 100% feature parity
- ✅ Complete CI/CD automation
- ✅ Semantic versioning
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation
- ✅ Docker support
- ✅ GitHub Actions integration

The Python version is more maintainable, better integrated with security tools, and easier to extend.

## Credits

- Original TypeScript implementation by the farofino-mcp team
- Python rewrite completed as requested
- CI/CD pipeline designed for automatic releases

## Support

For issues or questions:

- GitHub Issues: <https://github.com/italoag/farofino-mcp/issues>
- Documentation: See PYTHON_MIGRATION.md and CI_CD_SETUP.md
- Contributing: See CONTRIBUTING.md

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-10-17
**Version:** Python rewrite v1.0
